Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
In the previous lecture we went from simple assumptions to building out a two year revenue model for
a lemonade stand.
We built a robust model for results that change.
When we made changes to our core assumptions assumptions like these that were operating or the number
of hours per day of operation or the price point or our costs.
If demand is actually way higher than expected and we can raise the price to three dollars we can just
easily change the two fifty three dollars in our model and it would update right away.
All right let's fast forward now and say you did way better on your first day than expected and you
couldn't help but notice that a good portion of your customers were asking for a strawberry lemonade.
People who bought asked about it even people who came up to the table and left without buying.
Asked about it.
So you know that if you had the option you could do even better with your sales.
You want to added but you don't want to be preparing and transporting and storing two separate batches
of lemonade.
That's just way too much work and probably would lead to a lot more waste at the end of the day.
So you decide to make the premium strawberry just add on by using a syrup.
You'll be made of real strawberries that you'll add a tablespoon of to a regular cup of lemonade that
turns it into a tasty pink strawberry lemonade.
Now even though it's just one tablespoon of the Sierra per cup it will still cost you some additional
materials.
So let's update our cost economics first.
All right.
Let's get started with the model to add the strawberry premium scenario now.
So we first got to update the cost economics right.
We had this previously here for a regular cup but now we're adding a strawberry syrup for a premium.
So what would that look like.
So let's assume that this is a recipe for the strawberry syrup.
It costs half an ounce of strawberry syrup to make that lemonade a strawberry lemonade.
And it's made of 50 percent strawberries 25 percent water and 25 percent sugar.
OK so if that's the case then let's update our per cost economics here.
We have the bulk purchase economics here.
So let's cork calculate the cost per ounce where each of those things costs for the strawberries is
going to be of the four dollars divided by the one pound or 16 ounces.
Right.
So now we have the cost per ounce for the water it's going to be the costs for the five gallons divided
by five gallons divided by one hundred and twenty eight ounces per gallon for the sugar.
The sugar is going to be the 250 divided by five pounds divided by the 16 ounces per pound.
OK.
And so now we have the cost per ounce for all of them.
So now the way we're gonna look at the cost per use then is we have to look at that half ounce per use
of zero.
Right.
So the half ounce is we've got point five ounces times half of that that is strawberry.
And then times the cost per ounce but we think we're going to lose some of the strawberries.
You know there's some bad strawberries some that doesn't look ripe enough.
You don't want to use them might be moldy so you're gonna cost about a quarter of the strawberries out.
OK so we're gonna assume only a 75 percent yield which means we're gonna we're assuming that cost is
only applicable to 75 percent of the uses.
Right.
So then that is our cost per use for shrubs just under 10 cents for water.
It's gonna be our half an ounce of the 0 times the 25 percent that is water times the cost per ounce
and then for the sugar again is going to be the half ounce for the syrup ten point to five percent.
That is the sugar times the cost per ounce of sugar.
So we've got about nine cents of additional costs.
And now the total cost is somebody wanted to get it as a strawberry lemonade.
The total cost of goods is going to be just under a dollar and ninety eight cents.
So now that we have this let's do the model let's update the model.
Now the first part here the top part should look very familiar to you.
Right.
It's exactly the same as what we did before.
We still have the same traffic assumptions the same stop percentage and the purchase assumptions that
are being calculated.
We still have also the same assumption around the number of cups.
So it looks like the fancy strawberry add on will cost you just under 9 cents of additional food costs
but you feel pretty confident that charge 50 cents for it.
That's like 80 percent gross margins on this up sell.
Not bad but not everyone is going to add this to their order and only some of them will.
So how do we update the previous model to account for that.
Let's see.
So we're going to be doing all the formulas that are in gray here but before we do that we also need
some additional assumptions.
Right.
The previous one we just needed price per cup.
The cost per cup and the hours of operations we have the 250 for the price for the eighty nine cents
for the cost per cup in the five hours per day of operation.
But what we need to know in addition now in order to do this new scenario is well we got to know how
much we're charging for the strawberry premium.
So let's say we're going to charge 50 cents for the strawberry premium and then we're going to have
a cost of the nine cents that we just calculated for the additional costs.
But we also need to know hey what percentage of the people that make purchases or what percentage of
the cups that are purchased are actually going to be strawberry.
Right.
So more like percentage of cups strawberry and let's assume 30 percent.
So let's look at the calculation here now.
Okay.
That total monthly cups sold is going to equal to the total number of purchases times the average number
of cups per purchase.
Fair enough right.
Can Copy select pace.
And now we got the rest of them.
Now you could do sanity checks throughout your modeling just to see where you're at right.
So 1 sending the check we could do here is what what does that translate to in terms of cups sold for
our on average then that's the total number of cups per month divided by say the number of days that
we are selling divided by the number of hours sold that are operating per day.
Now again for that one we've got to make an absolute reference if we're going to carry that formula
over to the other cells since there's only one cell referencing the hours of operation.
So you're with the sandwich check we're looking at forty five cups sold for our you know if it's a very
busy location maybe it may be a little aggressive we don't know but at least you have an idea of where
that is right.
Because if instead this number is like you know 500 cups sold for our then you know you did something
wrong up here in terms of your assumptions or the calculations.
All right.
So a monthly premium capsule.
Well the total monthly premium of sold is going to be the total number of cups sold times the cell B
7 which is the percentage that actually are shrubbery cups.
So right.
The premium cups so we're gonna make that an absolute reference and we're going to calculate that.
So that is the number of premium cups that are sold.
So then that means the regular cups sold is just going to be the total number of cups minus the premium
cups.
So how do you calculate now the revenue from the cups.
Right let's do the regular on first regular 1 is pretty easy right.
It's going to be just the regular cups old times the price of a regular cup which is be 1.
Right so that's the revenue but what's the revenue for the premium cups.
Okay.
So we're gonna say the number of premium cups times the price of a regular cup because we get to buy
that first plus the price of the add on right.
So it's then that times the number of premium offers.
That's the revenue from the premium cups.
And what's the total revenue then.
Well it's going to be the sum of the two right.
These two plus each other and with monthly cogs we're gonna do it very similarly right.
So regular COGS is going to be the regular number of a number of regular cups times the cost of goods
for a regular cup which is eighty nine cents.
Fair enough.
Now the premium one is gonna be the number of premium cups times
the cost of a regular cup.
Right.
Plus the costs of the syrup.
That's the total cost of goods for the premium cups so then the total cost of goods will be the sum
of the two now what's the profits.
Well the profits going to be pretty straightforward right.
It's going to be that the total gross revenue minus the total COGS.
So we have to see how I did all of this vertically first because I know the other months have the same
calculations.
If it is then we can select the whole group.
Copy and select this whole section for all the months and then we paste it.
Now when we copy this notice that's not looking right.
It should look the same because all our monthly assumptions are the same.
Why doesn't it look the same.
Well one common mistake that is made when modeling sometimes you forget to do something upfront right.
You see here we forgot to put the cups calculations for all the other months.
Right.
So if we do this now and put it where it's supposed to be everything flows and we have something that
looks right now.
So one other thing that can make your life a little bit easier when you're modeling and let's just do
one of the examples here which is let's look at the revenues.
Right.
When we look at a formula like this you know I select the cell it has to follow a long ranking to say
oh what does this cell refer to this refers to premium cups sold.
And then this refers to price for Cup for the regular cup.
And then this refers to the price of the premium add on.
OK I get that.
But is there a way where we can do the same thing but make it a little bit easier to read when you look
at it later.
Well here's one way.
This is called naming it is cells or name ranges.
When I select this notice that I can put a name for this here on this.
This little white space here just above the top left corner of the spreadsheet.
When I select the cell you can type in the names I put price regular cup.
OK and then I'm going to go to the second one and call it strawberry premium OK you can name it what
you want but make sure it's very clear that you understand what what you're naming it.
Right.
So then let's do this again.
OK and you can also do it for an entire range not just a single cell.
Right.
So if I if I select this whole range here this is going to be total monthly cups sold OK.
So now that I have those name let's let's see how we can redo the revenues formulas.
OK.
So I'm I'm going to do this one first.
We're gonna clear that out I'm going to say this one is going to be total monthly cups sold.
You see that when you when you type that in whatever you name will show up.
And if you tabard whoops You can selected.
Right.
Total monthly cups sold.
Times the price
regular cup so now it's using the names that I use instead of the formulas.
But that's not right and I don't want the total cups.
I want the regular cups right.
So I'm gonna have to find my other one which I named it.
I think I named it monthly regular cups so there we go.
See that once you have the correct name it it finds it for you.
So now I have the correct calculation and it looks the same as the other ones.
We'll compare the formulas.
They look very different right.
I copy this code across.
So now if I come back to this some days later I remember what I was doing.
But if I select the cell and I look at my formula says oh this is equal to the monthly regular cups
sold times the price of a regular cup okay.
Got it.
It's going to be a little bit easier now.
It takes a little practice to name it and use it in ways that are easier for you to follow.
But this is one that is worth practicing and using in your models because after a while if you have
a lot of formulas it gets a little confusing.
Now I'm teaching it in terms of the formulas because that's a faster way to do this and to show you
rather than name each thing each time and I have to explain all the naming in addition to the modeling.
So in our examples I'm not going to name the formulas but I encourage you to practice naming your variables
when you use them.
So it's easier for you to reference well done.
You now have a financial model for your lemonade business that handles a main product and an up sell.
Up next you're feeling really confident and you decide to expand and open multiple locations.
How do we model things if you want to grow to five locations by the end of the first year.
I'll see you in the next lecture.